Name	Family	FamilyNoForge	Group	Height	Width	Assigned Family	Assigned Group	Assigned Group Number	Friendly Name	Override Image	Description
WEP_SnpCanDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	4	1	BAL	Sniper	1	Sniper Cannon		A very high velocity variant of the gauss cannon that uses a nano-rifled barrel to create a very long range very accurate at long distances gauss weapon. The speed of the shot and slow barrel tracking makes the weapon less useful at close ranges though.
WEP_MasShtDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	6	1	BAL	Mass Shotgun	1	Mass Shotgun		"A heavy driver that fires a burst of mass driver rounds in a cone shaped pattern. Devastating to small, fast moving targets."
WEP_BrstrDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	5	1	BAL	Specialty	2	Bursters		A heavy driver that hurls a container that detonates at a set distance and spraying the area with hyper velocity shrapnel. Very good at damaging tight groups of small enemy ships.
WEP_ShldDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	6	1	BAL	Specialty	2	Shield Breaker		A ferrous-silicate dust that is specially designed to disrupt high-energy shields and bring them down. This material is delivered by Heavy Driver cannons and will do massive damage to shields but no actual damage to the ship itself.
WEP_ErgDrain	BAL	BAL	null	8	1	BAL	Specialty	2	Leach Rounds		Highly specialized large driver shells that bind to the hull of the target and punch invasive superconductor spikes into the target ships power conduits. The leach round will then drain power from the target ship for 20 seconds before burning out and falling away. This results in slower recharge rate for weapons on the target ship as well as lower drive thrusts.
WEP_GsDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	1	1	BAL	Drivers	3	Gauss Driver		These ballistic weapons use magnetic fields to hurl dense metallic spheres at very high speeds at a target. The spheres do intense kinetic damage at impact.
WEP_MasDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	3	1	BAL	Drivers	3	Mass Drivers		A heavier ballistic system using advanced power systems to magnetically hurl larger rounds and designed for a medium turret mount.
WEP_HvyDrvr	BAL	BAL	SPINAL	5	1	BAL	Drivers	3	Heavy Drivers		Heavy barrel mass drivers that hurl very large kinetic rounds that do very heavy damage.
WEP_SgeDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	9	1	BAL	Drivers	3	Siege Drivers		Massive Magnetic Drivers that literally hurl chunks of iron/nickel asteroids at large targets for devastating damage. Also known as World Killers for their terrible power at planetary bombardment. This weapon can only be fitted to a dreadnought class vessel.
WEP_ThmpDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	10	1	BAL	Drivers	3	Thumpers		This weapon uses an anti-grav generator mounted inside a Heavy Driver round to create an aimed field effect which will push any vessel away from the center of the field.
WEP_VRFtech	BAL	BAL	null	2	1	BAL	Defense	4	VRF Technology		The use of quantum conductors to supercharge magnetic coils and allow for a increase in the rate of fire of ballistic weapons.
WEP_PDtech	BAL	BAL	PD	3	1	BAL	Defense	4	Point Defense Tracking		"Very high speed turrets and targeting systems fitted with small-bore, rapid-fire weapons.  They are intended to track and engage incoming missiles and torpedoes as well threatening mines and asteroids."
WEP_APRtech	BAL	BAL	null	5	1	BAL	Rounds	5	Armor Piercing Rounds		"A shaped refinement to the standard driver ballistic slug designed to penetrate enemy ship armor deeper with less chance of ricochet. AP rounds can be applied to all 3 sizes of driver guns but does require a new barrel for greater accuracy and range and so AP rounds cannot be fired from standard driver guns. AP rounds do slightly less damage and carry less kinetic impact that standard rounds of the same calibre but are more accurate, longer ranged and suffer from deflection less often."
WEP_NeutRnd	BAL	BAL	null	10	1	BAL	Rounds	5	Neutronium Rounds		A method of creating mass driver ammunition out of super-dense neutronium. This increases the damage potential of all driver rounds.
WEP_KKMsl	WAR	WAR	null	11	1	BAL	Rounds	5	KK Missile		"Using neutronium alloys as a non-explosive warhead coupled with advanced ionic thrusters, the Kinetic Kill missiles uses only the impact damage of a very high velocity collision to damage or destroy its target while imparting a large kinetic vector to the target should it survive."
WEP_StrmDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	5	1	BAL	Stormers	6	Stormers		A very rapid-fire driver delivery system that fires an intense stream of gauss cannon rounds onto a target. Slow tracking rate but very effective at hammering away against slower targets. 
WEP_HStrmDrvr	BAL	BAL	null	6	1	BAL	Stormers	6	Heavy Stormers		Heavy barrel version of the Stormer that hurls streams of mass driver rounds that do heavy damages.
WEP_AccAmp	BAL	BAL	null	7	1	BAL	Acceleration	6	Accelerator Ampilification		Breakthroughs both in superconductors and advanced alloys allows for the creation of a very large railgun that provides the hitting power and range previously only achievable in heavy beams. This technology can also be used to tune existing ballistic drivers to achieve a 10% increase in damage and a 20% increase in round velocity.
BAL_ROOT	BAL	BAL	null	0	1	BAL			Ballistic Weapons	TechTree/ballistics-tree.tga	Ballistic Weapons
BIO_SpndAni	BIO	null	null	2	1	BIO	Colonization	1	Suspended Animation		Allows you to place colonists in suspended animation for transport to their new world and increase your base population.
BIO_Btrans	BIO	null	null	3	1	BIO	Colonization	1	Biological Transfer		A system of placing entire environmental biomes in stasis for transport aboard cruiser class hulls. This allows colony ships to literally carry pieces of the homeworld to new colonies for a head start in terrforming.
BIO_GnMod	BIO	null	null	1	1	BIO	Adaptaton	2	Gene Modification		Allows you to genetically modify the characteristics of your colonists to improve population growth on alien worlds by 10%
BIO_AtmoAd	BIO	null	null	2	1	BIO	Adaptaton	2	Atmospheric Adaptation		Allows you to genetically modify the respiration systems of your colonists to improve population growth and optimize terraforming on alien worlds. This results in a 75 point increase in Enviro Hazard tolerance and a 6% overall increase in population growth. The resulting greater understanding of atmospheric components also results in a 25% increase in terraforming efficiency.
BIO_EnvTail	BIO	null	null	3	1	BIO	Adaptaton	2	Environmental Tailoring		Allows you to genetically modify the entire physiology of your colonists to improve population growth and optimize terraforming on alien worlds. This increases population growth by 20% and terraforming effeciency by 35%.
BIO_GrvAdpt	BIO	null	null	4	1	BIO	Adaptaton	2	Gravitational Adaptation		Allows you to genetically modify the race’s skeleton and musculature to better deal with high gravity worlds and thus makes a larger range of worlds suitable for colonization. This increases your races Enviro Hazard tolerance by 150 points while increasing terraforming efficiency by 25% and population growth on all worlds by 10%.
BIO_TerBac	BIO	null	null	3	1	BIO	Terraforming	3	Terraforming Bacteria		Genetically engineered mass-growth bacteria that can alter a planets atmosphere thus increasing terraforming efficiency by 35%.
IND_EleNans	IND	null	null	7	1	BIO	Terraforming	3	Elemental Nanites		A generation of nano-bot assemblers designed to break down unwanted chemicals and elements in a planetary atmosphere and results in a 50% increase in terraforming efficiency.
BIO_Plg	BIO	null	BIOMISSILE	2	1	BIO	Plague	4	Plague		A bio-weapon designed to kill any carbon-based species. Delivered to enemy planets via large bio-missiles. Each impact should infect 20% of planetary population unless the enemy possesses the vaccine.
BIO_RtPlg	BIO	null	BIOMISSILE	3	2	BIO	Plague	4	Retro Plague		A retro-virus bio-weapon designed to kill any carbon-based species. Delivered to enemy planets via large bio-missiles. Each impact should infect 35% of planetary population unless the enemy possesses the vaccine.
BIO_Bst	BIO	null	BIOMISSILE	4	2	BIO	Plague	4	Beast Bomb		A tailored virus that destroys the awareness centers of a creature’s brain and reduces them to the level of animals. This causes chaos and massive destruction for a planetary society.
BIO_AsPlg	BIO	null	BIOMISSILE	5	2	BIO	Plague	4	Assimilation Plague		"A refined version of the beast bomb virus. This plague makes each victim a willing slave to the attacker. If the infection takes over the entire planet, it becomes a new world in the attackers empire."
BIO_NanVir	BIO	null	BIOMISSILE	8	1	BIO	Plague	4	Nano Virus		"A nanobot based “plague” which is designed to attack and breakdown all artificial structures such as buildings, machines and electronics. Extremely effective against AI rebellion planets."
BIO_SmrtNan	BIO	null	null	10	1	BIO	Plague	4	Smart Nanites		This generation of offensive nanites is designed to recognize unique molecular signatures in the hulls of friendly vessels and does not attack them. This creates a nano-missile that ONLY damages enemy ships.
BIO_PlgVac	BIO	null	null	3	1	BIO	Vaccine	5	Plague Vaccine	TechTree/PlagueCure.tga	An antidote to plague. Makes your race immune to the effects of the Plague Bio-Weapon.
BIO_RtPlgVac	BIO	null	null	4	1	BIO	Vaccine	5	Retro Plague Vaccine		An antidote to the retro-virus plague. Makes your race immune to the effects of the Retro-Plague Bio-Weapon.
BIO_BstVac	BIO	null	null	5	1	BIO	Vaccine	5	Beast Bomb Vaccine		An antidote to the Beast plague. Makes your race immune to the effects of the Beast Plague Bio-Weapon.
BIO_AsPlgVac	BIO	null	null	6	1	BIO	Vaccine	5	Assimilation Plague Vaccine		An antidote to the Assimilation Plague Virus. Makes your race immune to the effects of the Assimilation Plague Bio-Weapon.
BIO_UniAnti	BIO	null	null	7	3	BIO	Vaccine	5	Universal Antigen		A universal Vaccine for all bio-weapons rendering your race immune to them.
BIO_ConNan	BIO	null	null	9	1	BIO	Vaccine	5	Counter Nanites		"Nanobots designed to “counter attack” enemy nanobot incursions and repair the damage made by them. Counter nanites ""cure"" NanoVirus outbreaks as well as reducing the damage taken from ships hit by nano-missiles."
BIO_ROOT	BIO	BIO	null	0	1	BIO			Biological	TechTree/bio-tree.tga	Biological
CCC_FTLEcon	CCC	null	null	4	1	CCC	Commerce	1	FTL Economics		"The establishment of systems using Faster Than Light communication and travel to facilitate efficient trade systems between friendly worlds. This technology allow an empire the ability to create trade routes and the star-freighters to service them. Combined with fusion, this will allow us to build police ships to protect our sectors and maintain morale."
CCC_ComRaid	CCC	null	null	7	1	CCC	Commerce	1	Commerce Raiding		"A system of tactics, communication, and support systems capable of keeping small fleets in action and undetected for large periods of time while they patrol enemy trade routes in order to intercept, destroy or capture Merchant shipping. "
CCC_FTLBrdB	CCC	null	null	2	1	CCC	Subspace	2	FTL Broadband		Faster-Than-Light Broadband allows you to observe the combat of allied players.
CCC_SpyBm	CCC	null	JAMMING	3	2	CCC	Subspace	2	Sub-Space Spy Beam		Sub-space Spy Beams allow you to observe enemy combat in nearby star systems.
CCC_SpJam	CCC	null	null	4	3	CCC	Subspace	2	Sub-Space Jammers		Sub-space jamming will prevent enemy empires from observing your combats.
CCC_NdTrkHum	CCC	null	null	5	2	CCC	Subspace	2	Node Tracking: Human		A system for tracking human ships traveling in node space and deriving their origins and destinations via drive radiation and decoded transmissions.
CCC_NdTrkZul	CCC	null	null	5	1	CCC	Subspace	2	Node Tracking: Zuul		A system for tracking Zuul ships traveling in node space and deriving their origins and destinations via drive radiation and decoded transmissions. 
CCC_FTLCom	CCC	null	null	1	1	CCC	Command	3	FTL Communications		The basic level of communicating and issuing orders to planets and ships.
CCC_BtlCmp	CCC	null	null	2	1	CCC	Command	3	Battle Computers		Computer systems designed specifically to enhance command and control of squadron-sized groups of ships. Increases number of ships that can be controlled in combat.
CCC_DatSyn	CCC	null	null	4	1	CCC	Command	3	Data Synergy		Full sensor and battle computer integration that allows for even larger fleets to be controlled effectively by cruiser class command ships.
CCC_ArmCom	CCC	null	null	9	1	CCC	Command	3	Armada Command Systems		The ultimate advancement in command and control systems designed for Dreadnought class ships.
CCC_FCCom	CCC	null	null	11	1	CCC	Command	3	Flag Central Command		The ultimate advancement in command and control systems.
CCC_CmbtAlg	CCC	null	null	8	1	CCC	CNC	4	Combat Algorithms		A breakthrough in predictive systems that allows for the operation of more ships in a fleet.
CCC_HoloTac	CCC	null	null	10	1	CCC	CNC	4	Holographic Tactics		An advancement in command and control technologies that allows commanders to view the entire combat at once in a specially designed HoloTank. This gives them the ability to control more ships.
CCC_SnsJam	CCC	null	JAMMING	3	1	CCC	Sensors	5	Sensor Jammer		Broadcast systems designed to fill enemy sensor channels with static and blocking their ability to gather information both tactically and at long strategic range.
CCC_QntChaf	CCC	null	JAMMING	6	1	CCC	Sensors	5	Quantum Chaff		A system of using quantum waveforms to imitate the sensor signal of an entire ship to use as decoys. A ship fitted with this technology may create false images on enemy sensor modules as well as attracting and detonating enemy tracking ordinance.
CCC_HypCom	CCC	null	null	2	1	CCC	Sensors	6	Hyper-Link Communications		Enables communication with ships traveling at warp and allows you to send them new movement orders mid-transit.
CCC_AdvSens	CCC	null	null	4	1	CCC	Sensors	6	Advanced Sensors		"Using advancements in FTL communications, Advanced Sensors use Tachyon particle waves to gather information at very long distances as well as sensing the disturbances caused by cloaked vessels."
CCC_DatCor	CCC	null	null	6	2	CCC	Sensors	6	Data Correlation		"Using advancements in FTL communications, Data Correlation allows for real time updating of a central database of enemy ship performance in combat. This creates a report for each opposing empire listing current ships known designations and observed weapon load-outs."
CCC_TunSens	CCC	null	null	7	1	CCC	Sensors	6	Tunneling Sensors		"Using sensors deliberately tuned to the deep quantum tunneling of reactor particle radiation, this technology provides very large sensor arrays like those found aboard Sensor Stations and Dreadnought Advanced EW Sections a chance to detect cloaked vessels at interstellar range."
CCC_ScanSats	CCC	null	null	8	1	CCC	Sensors	6	Scanner Satellites		"Adaptations of deep scan technology allows for smaller, short range variants designed to provide limited tactical scan capability versus cloaked targets entering planetary bombardment range."
CCC_IntSens	CCC	null	null	3	1	CCC	AdvSensors	7	Integrated Sensors		An advanced sensor system that integrates sensor data from all ships in the fleet in real time and makes that overall data available to command ships.
CCC_AdvCnC	CCC	null	null	6	1	CCC	AdvSensors	7	Advanced Command and Control		Allows you to select ships and give them orders from within the tactical sensor screen.
CCC_ROOT	CCC	CCC	null	0	1	CCC			C3	TechTree/CnC-tree.tga	C3
IND_PredGun	DRN	DRN	null	3	1	DRN	Computers	1	Predictive Gunnery		This simple AI targeting system will allow ships equipped with this technology to fire much more accurately.
IND_CyberInt	DRN	DRN	null	1	1	DRN	AI	2	Cybernetic Interface		A mind machine interface that allows a single being to control fleets of machines. Allows ships to be built more 5% more efficiently and increases the industrial output of all worlds by 20%.
IND_ExpSys	DRN	DRN	null	3	1	DRN	AI	2	Expert Systems		Advanced Software that allows for construction robots to function with a minimum of intelligent supervision. Allows ships to be built 10% more efficiently and increases the industrial output of all worlds by 15%.
CCC_AI	DRN	DRN	null	7	2	DRN	AI	2	Artificial Intelligence		The development of truly self-aware computers advances scientific research like never before. 50% increases in researching efficiency.
CCC_AIAdmin	DRN	DRN	null	8	3	DRN	AI	2	AI Administration		The instillation of AI intelligences into the bureaucratic system resulting in a large increase in revenues due to streamlining the economy. Increases financial output of all worlds by 50%.
CCC_AIFac	DRN	DRN	null	8	2	DRN	AI	2	AI Factories		The instillation of AI intelligences into the manufacturing system resulting in the dramatic increase in industrial output. Increases industrial output of all worlds by 50%
CCC_AIFrCon	DRN	DRN	null	8	1	DRN	AI	2	AI Fire Control		The instillation of AI intelligences into combat vessels to handle targeting and power allocation resulting in higher speed and maneuvering abilities
CCC_AIVrus	DRN	DRN	null	9	2	DRN	AI	2	AI Virus		This digital Virus gives the player the ability to purge his civilization of AI influence and negate the effects of the AI Rebellion.
CCC_AISlv	DRN	DRN	null	10	2	DRN	AI	2	AI Slaves		This programming development allows AI to be rendered loyal slaves and reinstates AI bonuses after AI Virus or Rebellion has been triggered.
DRN_AdvRob	DRN	null	null	2	2	DRN	Drones	3	Advanced Robotics		This technology allows for autonomous AI driven robots to perform simple construction tasks in zero-G conditions and results in a 5% boost to ship construction efficiency.
DRN_Cmbt	DRN	null	null	3	2	DRN	Drones	3	Combat Drones		Construction drones taken to the next level have become autonomous combat vessels able to engage and harass targets far away from their command ship.
DRN_Auto	DRN	null	null	4	1	DRN	Drones	3	Autonomous Drones		A set of AI routines that allow a drone to function without control or user input for many years at a time. The Morrigi use this technology to create ships that can set colony and asteroid traps. The vessel is consumed in the construction of the trap system.
DRN_Sats	DRN	null	null	4	3	DRN	Drones	3	Drone Satellites		Engineering upgrades to standard defense satellite tech allows for the launching and re-arming of Drones from medium and large specialized platforms.
DRN_Squad	DRN	null	null	4	2	DRN	Drones	3	Drone Squadrons		The advancement in both AI and support technologies that allow a single vessels to command and maintain a large number of combat drones.
DRN_AdvFrm	DRN	null	null	5	2	DRN	Drones	3	Advanced Drone Frames		"This technology allows for the creation of more robust drone frames, power systems and control surfaces, which results in the ability to support larger weapon loadouts and more robust attack systems. This gives an Empire the ability to build Heavy Drones, Advanced Assault Shuttles, and the Cruiser Assault Shuttle section."
DRN_WingMan	DRN	null	null	5	1	DRN	Drones	3	Drone Wing Management		The advancement in both AI and support technologies that allow a single vessels to command and maintain a very large number of combat drones.
DRN_BtlRdrs	DRN	null	null	6	1	DRN	Drones	3	Battle Riders	TechTree/Battle_Riders.tga	Advancements in dreadnought engineering and heavy auxiliary ships have allowed Tark engineers to recreate a First Empire STL Hunter cruiser design and the corresponding Dreadnought Carrier for it.
DRN_COL	DRN	null	null	4	2	DRN	COL	4	COL		"This Complex Ordinance Launcher, an advancement in drone engineering and propagation technology, allows for the grouping of small ordinance into larger, more durable packages that can be fired deep into enemy territory before dispersal."
DRN_CrakCOL	DRN	null	null	5	1	DRN	COL	4	Cracker COL		This COL uses Mine technology to create a COL round that bursts into a small minefield at the target point.
DRN_CryCOL	DRN	null	null	5	3	DRN	COL	4	CryBaby COL		This COL is based on Wild Weasel Technology to create a COL round that will attract any guided ordinance in the area around it.
DRN_TPCOL	DRN	null	null	5	2	DRN	COL	4	TarPit COL		This COL uses grav technology to create a COL round that creates a large gravity field at the target point for a few moments.
DRN_ROOT	DRN	DRN	null	0	1	DRN			Drone	TechTree/drone_tree.tga	Drone
DRV_Node	DRV	null	null	1	2	DRV	Human	1	Node Drive		"Using Super-string theory, the Node drive allows a ship to access a gravitational string nexus and travel faster than light to another star.  This travel is faster than light but is restricted to the natural string connections between gravity nodes and these may or may not be close by in terms of the regular fabric of space-time."
DRV_NodFoc	DRV	null	null	4	2	DRV	Human	1	Node Focusing		A refinement of the node ring technology that allows more efficient nodeline access resulting in higher speed jumps.
DRV_NodPath	DRV	null	null	8	2	DRV	Human	1	Sub-Space Pathing		The ultimate refinement in Node drive technology allowing for longer range and faster travel times.
WEP_NdMsl	WAR	WAR	null	10	1	DRV	Human	1	Node Missile		A smart missile using advanced node drive technology that allows them to travel to and strike another star system on their own.
DRV_TpGate	DRV	null	null	1	1	DRV	Hiver	2	Teleport Gate		The technology Hivers use to teleport their ships instantaneously from system to system. Allows instant strategic map movement for Hiver ships between star systems that both have gates.
DRV_GatAmp	DRV	null	null	4	1	DRV	Hiver	2	Gate Amplifiers		A set of energy amplifiers that increase the number of ships the Hiver gate network can transport at any given time. Results in a gate capacity increase of 3 for every gate.
DRV_FarCast	DRV	null	null	8	1	DRV	Hiver	2	FarCasters		This advancement in gate technology allows a Hiver gate to transport a Hiver fleet up to ten light-years WITHOUT a receiver gate. There are some issues with accuracy as the fleet will arrive on target + or – 2 light-years.
DRV_Hyper	DRV	null	null	1	1	DRV	Tarka	3	Hyperdrive		The ability to create a field of warped space-time that allows a ship to travel faster than the speed of light on any course.
DRV_HyprFld	DRV	null	null	4	1	DRV	Tarka	3	Shaped Hyper-Fields		This refinement in hyperdrive fields allows for faster FTL travel and a small increase in stellar range.
DRV_Warp	DRV	null	null	8	1	DRV	Tarka	3	WarpDrive		"The ultimate expression of hyper-field technology, the Warp drive uses a hyper-field to warp space-time for maneuvering as well as FTL travel. This is far more efficient for drive space though it is vulnerable to damage."
DRV_StrWrp	DRV	null	null	1	1	DRV	Liir	4	StutterWarp		"A mode of travel that creates movement by tiny teleports millions of times per second.  It has poor maneuvering ability, especially near the gravity well of star systems, but has the advantage of being both an FTL and main drive unit at the same time."
DRV_ImpStWrp	DRV	null	null	4	1	DRV	Liir	4	Improved StutterWarp		A refinement of stutterwarp technology that allows for more efficient FTL travel and higher speeds near gravity wells.
DRV_Flicker	DRV	null	null	8	1	DRV	Liir	4	FlickerDrive		"The ultimate refinement of stutterwarp tech results in a drive that actually ports the ship so fast and precisely, it has a chance to slip between enemy shots while moving"
DRV_McrFlkr	DRV	null	null	10	1	DRV	Liir	4	Micro-FlickerDrive		This miniature flicker drive can be fitted to missiles allowing them the same chance of weapons fire to pass right through them.
DRV_Rip	DRV	null	null	1	1	DRV	Zuul	5	Rip Drive		This FTL technology allows specialized Ripper “tunneling ships” to literally tear open a hole between “normal” and node space. This lets the Rippers create their own node line network at will. The only drawback to artificial node lines is that they are unstable and will collapse over time and through extended disruption by ships’ mass. A node line that collapses will destroy any ship in transit down it. 
DRV_Rend	DRV	null	null	4	1	DRV	Zuul	5	Rend Drive		"A more powerful version of the Zuul Rip Drive, Rending drives tear open space more efficiently and create a more stable node line but require more power and the use of a larger tunneler ship."
DRV_Rad	DRV	null	null	8	1	DRV	Zuul	5	Radiant Drive		Radiant drives use multiple foci to slice open space very efficiently and create a relatively stable node line. The power required is massive and requires a very large class of tunneler ship.
DRV_VdCtr	DRV	null	null	1	1	DRV	Morrigi	6	Void Cutter Drive		This FTL technology of the Morrigi race pulls their ships into FTL channels using focused gravity to infinitely curve space-time. This allows them to accelerate and maneuver sub-light as well without using vented reactor plasma. 
DRV_VdCrv	DRV	null	null	4	1	DRV	Morrigi	6	Void Carver Drive		This refinement of the Cutter Drive allows for greater range and speed.
DRV_VdMstr	DRV	null	null	8	1	DRV	Morrigi	6	Void Mastery Drive		The ultimate refinement of the Cutter Drive allows for great range and speed.
DRV_GrvSyn	DRV	null	null	10	1	DRV	Morrigi	6	Grav Synergy		This technology effectively doubles the number of Morrigi ships that count towards the flock efficiency bonus.
DRV_ROOT	DRV	DRV	null	0	1	DRV			Star Drives	TechTree/stardrive-tree.tga	Star Drives
WEP_PolPlsm	NRG	NRG	null	4	1	EWP	Plasmatics	1	Polarized Plasmatics		"This focusing technology allows for the creation of weaponized plasma forms, which are polarized to “spin” along a horizontal axis. The result plasma focuses its thermal release along a very narrow plane upon contact with the target and achieves a “slicing” effect that defeats ship armor. This small-barreled weapon has been nicknamed the “War Quoit” by human ship crews."
WEP_PolFus	NRG	NRG	null	8	1	EWP	Plasmatics	1	Chakkar		The Chakkar cannon is the advancement of polarized plasmatics into the fusion era resulting in longer range and heavier hitting power while still retaining the ability to cut through armor plating as if it were not there.
WEP_PolAm	NRG	NRG	null	11	1	EWP	Plasmatics	1	Chakram		The upscaled polarized plasmatic weapon for use at AntiMatter power levels in large bore weapons is known as the Chakram.
WEP_HvyPCan	NRG	NRG	null	5	1	EWP	Heavy Cannons	2	Heavy Plasma Cannon		"A triple-barrel rapid-fire version of the standard plasma energy cannon. The extra long barrel gives the weapon a much more cohesive plasma sphere, which equates to longer range and higher accuracy when mounted in large turrets."
WEP_HvyFCan	NRG	NRG	null	7	1	EWP	Heavy Cannons	2	Heavy Fusion Cannon		"A triple-barrel rapid-fire version of the standard fusion energy cannon. The extra long barrel gives the weapon a much more cohesive plasma sphere, which equates to longer range and higher accuracy when mounted in large turrets."
WEP_HvyACan	NRG	NRG	null	10	1	EWP	Heavy Cannons	2	Heavy Anti-Matter Cannon		"A triple-barrel rapid-fire version of the standard anti-matter energy cannon. The extra long barrel gives the weapon a much more cohesive plasma sphere, which equates to longer range and higher accuracy when mounted in large turrets."
WEP_PlsmCan	NRG	NRG	null	3	1	EWP	Cannons	3	Plasma Cannon		A small packet of high-energy plasma fired from a standard medium turret mount.
WEP_FusCan	NRG	NRG	null	6	1	EWP	Cannons	3	Fusion Cannon		"Improvement of the plasma cannon, allows the plasma to reach critical fusion temperatures before impact, causing more damage."
WEP_AmCan	NRG	NRG	null	9	1	EWP	Cannons	3	Anti-Matter Cannon		The most powerful of the standard cannon weapons produced firing a small ball of positronic plasma at targets for devastating effect.
WEP_PlsmProj	NRG	NRG	PRJCTR	6	1	EWP	Projectors	4	Plasma Projector		This weapon uses a massive array of plasma generating nodes to project a storm of high-energy blasts at a target. It is so large it can only be specially mounted on a cruiser hull.
WEP_FusProj	NRG	NRG	PRJCTR	8	1	EWP	Projectors	4	Fusion Projector		This weapon uses a massive array of Fusion generating nodes to project a storm of high energy blasts at a target. It is so large it can only be specially mounted on a cruiser hull.
SLD_Proj	SLD	null	null	9	1	EWP	Projectors	4	Shield Projector		"This technology combines advanced shield technologies and combines them with energy projector tech to create a large turret device that can focus energy in a completely impenetrable small disk at some distance from the ship. While relatively tiny in its coverage area, the shield disk created can block any incoming weapon fire."
WEP_AmProj	NRG	NRG	PRJCTR	11	1	EWP	Projectors	4	Anti-Matter Projector		This weapon uses a massive array of anti-matter generating nodes to project a storm of devastating high energy blasts at a target. It is so large it can only be specially mounted on a cruiser hull.
WEP_MesProj	NRG	NRG	PRJCTR	13	1	EWP	Projectors	4	Meson Projector		"This advanced projector technology focuses a wide beam that disrupts all pi mesons in the target area and if the disruption is allowed to complete its cycle it results in a massive disintegration of matter at the target point with the expected devastating energy release associated with such an event. If a Meson Projector stays focused on a target for the full period of time it will cause massive damage to the target, but should the beam lose its target point or be stopped before the projection time is complete, no damage will be done to the target."
WEP_LtEmitr	NRG	NRG	null	3	1	EWP	Emitters	5	Light Emitter		"A high energy discharge weapon commonly known as a lightning gun.  It damages target ships by inducing an arc of plasma. Damage is low but the plasma arc can sometimes jump to another close by ship, damaging it as well."
WEP_Emitr	NRG	NRG	null	4	1	EWP	Emitters	5	Emitter		"A high energy medium discharge weapon commonly known as a lightning gun.  It damages target ships by inducing an arc of plasma. Damage is low but the plasma arc can often jump to multiple nearby ships, damaging them as well."
WEP_HvyEmitr	NRG	NRG	null	8	1	EWP	Emitters	5	Heavy Emitter		The strongest version of the emitter.  This technology is pushed to its furthest point to become the ultimate weapon in mass discharging. Damage is moderate and the plasma arc can often jump to a large number nearby ships
SLD_Focus	SLD	null	null	10	1	EWP	Emitters	5	Shield Focusing		"This tech combines the shield projector with the Liirian flicker warp technology to literally project a single shield over multiple targets millions of times per second, making it appear as if each ship had its own complete shield. "
WEP_PrtBm	NRG	NRG	SPINAL	3	1	EWP	Particle Beam	6	Particle Beam		A beam of charged particles that deliver intense heat and EM damage. Designed for Large turrets or Destroyers built around the Spinal Mount Mission section.
WEP_NeutBm	NRG	NRG	null	7	1	EWP	Particle Beam	6	Neutron Beam		A large turret or spinal mount beam weapon that fires concentrated neutrons to deliver intense heat and kinetic damage to the target.
WEP_PosiBm	NRG	NRG	null	9	1	EWP	Particle Beam	6	Positron Beam		A beam of anti-matter particles that does intense explosive damage when it contacts solid positive matter. It causes massive environmental damage against planets but is harmless against shields.
WEP_MesBm	NRG	NRG	null	12	1	EWP	Particle Beam	6	Meson Beam		A directed beam of sub-atomic particles that penetrates solid matter and shielding to detonate on command causing massive internal damage.
WEP_GravBm	NRG	NRG	null	13	1	EWP	Particle Beam	6	Graviton Beam		A directed beam of graviton particles that causes stress damage to the entire ship at once and also serves as a tractor beam to hold the target in place.
WEP_PulGrvBm	NRG	NRG	null	14	1	EWP	Particle Beam	6	Pulsed Graviton Beam		A refinement of the standard Graviton beam that adds an oscillating gravimetric pulse to the beam which induce brutal shockwaves into the target. Resonating waves can get so strong it can result in catastrophic structure failures in systems like Turret Connections.
WEP_RedLas	NRG	NRG	null	1	2	EWP	Lasers	7	Red Lasers		Initial combat laser technology. Very fast and accurate but low damage.
WEP_GrnLas	NRG	NRG	null	2	2	EWP	Lasers	7	Green Lasers		A more efficient laser weapon. Very fast and accurate with slightly faster recharge than the Red Laser.
WEP_GrnBmr	NRG	NRG	null	3	1	EWP	Beams	7	Green Beamers		A sustained low energy laser beam for small turret mounts. 
WEP_UvLas	NRG	NRG	null	3	3	EWP	Lasers	7	UltraViolet Lasers		Higher energy laser weapon. Very fast and accurate with longer range and slightly higher damage than previous lasers.
WEP_UvBmr	NRG	NRG	null	4	1	EWP	Beams	7	UV Beamers	TechTree/UV_beamer.tga	A sustained low energy laser beam for small turret mounts. 
WEP_XryLas	NRG	NRG	null	4	2	EWP	Lasers	7	X-Ray Lasers		"Very High-energy laser weapon. Very fast, accurate and delivers medium damage. It delivers higher damage at a longer range but has a slower recharge rate than previous lasers."
WEP_Phas	NRG	NRG	null	7	1	EWP	Lasers	7	Phasers		A highly efficient beam weapon using phased laser light and particle discharge to maximize damage and accuracy. Its optimized design allows it to be fitted in medium turrets.
WEP_PDPhas	NRG	NRG	PD	9	3	EWP	Lasers	7	Point Defense Phaser		"A low power, high rate of fire, version of the standard phaser designed to fit point-defence turret mounts and engage incoming tracking weapons with a high level of accuracy and good stopping power."
WEP_PlsPhas	NRG	NRG	null	10	2	EWP	Lasers	7	Pulse Phasers		A rapid-fire version of the phaser that breaks the beam up into a handful of high-powered phaser pulses at a single targeting point. This allows the weapon to be placed in small turret mounts while retaining much of the deadly power of the phaser beam.
WEP_HCLas	NRG	NRG	HVYBEAM	5	1	EWP	Lancers	8	Heavy Combat Lasers		"A very large, fixed-mount Laser cannon designed for long range beam combat against slow moving capital ships."
WEP_Lancer	NRG	NRG	HVYBEAM	9	1	EWP	Lancers	8	Lancers		"A very large, fixed-mount phased beam weapon designed to punch right through the hulls of enemy ships."
WEP_CtngBm	NRG	NRG	HVYBEAM	13	1	EWP	Lancers	8	Cutting Beam		"A very large, fixed-mount beam weapon that fires a high-energy stream of anti-protons that cut through any solid material at very long ranges."
EWP_ROOT	NRG	NRG	null	0	1	EWP			Energy Weapons	TechTree/EnergyWeapons-tree.tga	Energy Weapons
IND_MegFrght	IND	null	null	5	1	IND	Construction	1	Mega-Freighters		The ability to build cruiser sized freighters for inter-empire trade.
IND_ModCon	IND	null	null	7	1	IND	Construction	1	Modular Construction		"This technology takes military construction doctrines and applies it to civilian ships, resulting in a 5% increase in civilian income generation. This also results in the ability to make the civilian/military hybrid Q-Ships."
IND_DSCon	IND	null	null	8	1	IND	Construction	1	Deep Space Constructors		The creation of highly specialized deep space construction ships for the building of structures beyond planetary orbit.
IND_OrbCom	IND	null	null	10	1	IND	Construction	1	Orbital Complexes		"Allows for the construction of large, special purpose space stations."
IND_SpnlMnt	IND	null	null	3	1	IND	Specialty	2	Spinal Mounts		A fixed beam mount that takes up an entire Destroyer mission module and allows a destroyer to carry a heavy beam weapon.
IND_BrdPod	IND	null	null	6	1	IND	Specialty	2	Boarding Pods		Small shuttles designed to deliver squads of soldiers to enemy ships and cut through the hulls so they can enter. Once aboard the troops will try and subdue the crew and slave the guns to their own fire control system turning the enemy ship into a immobile weapons platform.
IND_Decon	IND	null	null	8	1	IND	Specialty	2	Zero-G Deconstruction		Systems that allow starships of all sizes to be broken up for recycling while still in orbit and thus tripling the return on scrapped ships.
IND_Waldo	IND	null	null	1	1	IND	Engineering	3	Waldo Units		Remote control construction devices that allow workers to build in hostile or dangerous environments without risk. This results in lowering the construction costs for ships by 10% and a 15% increase in the industrial output of all planets.
IND_OrbFound	IND	null	null	2	1	IND	Engineering	3	Orbital Foundries		Orbital bases for the processing of metals in zero-G. Lowers the fiscal cost of ship construction by 5% and makes larger ship hulls possible.
IND_CruisCon	IND	null	null	4	1	IND	Engineering	3	Cruiser Construction		The creation of facilities and machines that allow you to construct Cruiser class ships which are approximately 3 times larger than Destroyer hulls.
IND_OrbDry	IND	null	null	6	1	IND	Engineering	3	Orbital Drydocks		Enclosed Construction Bases for the efficient building of very large ships in orbit. Reduces the construction cost of Cruisers and Dreadnoughts by 5%
IND_AtProc	IND	null	null	7	2	IND	Engineering	3	Atmospheric Processors		This technology uses focused plasma torches to break down toxic atmospheres on a gigantic scale and speeds terraforming by 40%.
IND_HvyPlat	IND	null	null	8	1	IND	Engineering	3	Heavy Platforms		Allows the mounting and use of very large construction and processing equipment on orbital platforms. Increases the production output of all planets by 10%
IND_AstMon	IND	null	null	8	3	IND	Engineering	3	Monitor Construction		Advances in both asteroid mining and deep space construction allows for the hollowing out of large asteroids to recreate some of the power and function of the ancient Morrigi Asteroid monitors. Construction of new asteroid monitors requires a construction ship and the system in which they are being built MUST have an asteroid belt.
IND_DreadCon	IND	null	null	9	1	IND	Engineering	3	Dreadnought Construction		"The creation of facilities and machines that allow the construction of the largest starship class, the Dreadnought. These massive ships are approximately 3 times larger than cruisers and pack devastating firepower."
IND_TrpSat	IND	null	null	9	2	IND	Engineering	3	Torpedo Defense Platforms		The use of reinforced orbital structures to place large torpedo systems aboard medium and heavy defence platforms.
IND_AdvDreadEng	IND	null	null	10	1	IND	Engineering	3	Advanced Dreadnought Engineering		The incorporation of complex systems into a single Dreadnought module.
IND_TrctBm	IND	null	null	9	1	IND	Gravity	4	Tractor Beam		An Electromagnetic Beam capable of locking on to another ship over a distance and holding it.
IND_GravCon	IND	null	null	10	1	IND	Gravity	4	Gravity Control		This technology allows for the creation and manipulation of artificial gravity fields. This results in a 30% increase in industrial efficiency on all worlds.
IND_SlvgTech	IND	null	null	4	1	IND	Mining	5	Salvage Technology		Small and efficient robotic disassembler and construction systems that allow a ship to salvage wrecks for metal and technology as well as repair friendly vessels.
IND_AstMine	IND	null	null	5	1	IND	Mining	5	Asteroid Mining		Systems for prospecting and retrieval of asteroids for their elements. This ability not only allows you to mine uninhibated system but is also reflected in a sizable increase in the resource base of your inhabited worlds.
IND_MsMine	IND	null	null	6	1	IND	Mining	5	Mega-Strip Mining		"Improved systems for the retrieval resources in a planetary system, particularly the increased efficiency and speed overharvesting can utilize resources from the colony surface."
IND_TrkStl	IND	null	null	3	1	IND	Materials	6	Tarkasian Living Steel		This brings eons of Tarkasian mastery of steel and armor alloys into the starship age. Giving their ships an armor quality that increases deflection chances as well as a very limited self-repair ability through the molecular re-ordering nature of Tarkasian Alloys.
IND_PlyAlloy	IND	null	null	4	2	IND	Materials	6	Polysilicate Alloys		An advanced kinetic–resistant hull material that strengthens the entire section of a ship.
IND_MagLat	IND	null	null	7	2	IND	Materials	6	MagnoCeramic Lattices		A magnetically enhanced ceramic composite material that makes hulls very resistant to kinetic attacks and greatly reinforces a sections internal structure.
IND_QrkRes	IND	null	null	8	2	IND	Materials	6	Quark Resonators		These advanced field generators send out a resonant energy wave that induces quark alignment in solids and results in a steep increase in the toughness of ship hulls.
IND_AdmAly	IND	null	null	9	2	IND	Materials	6	Adamantite Alloys		An incredibly strong neutronium laced alloy resistant to all forms of damage.
IND_RefCoat	IND	null	null	2	1	IND	Reflection	7	Reflective Coating		A subsurface layer of highly reflective ceramic to defeat incoming laser fire by causing the beams to reflect off into space
IND_ImpRfCt	IND	null	null	3	2	IND	Reflection	7	Improved Reflective Coating		A subsurface layer of highly reflective ceramic combined with a curved EM field to increase the chance of reflecting incoming laser fire.
IND_StlthArm	IND	null	null	4	1	IND	Reflection	7	Stealth Armor		An armor layer designed not as much for toughness as to reduce the energy signature of a vessel. Ships equipped with stealth armor are somewhat more fragile than other ships but can escape long range detection much more easily. Ideal for raiding vessels. 
IND_HrdElec	IND	null	null	5	2	IND	Reflection	7	Hardened Electronics		Ship construction techniques that created more substantial hardwalls against electron flow through the ships armor. This reduces the time it takes to recover from EMP weaponry as well as reducing the damage taken from emitter class weapons.
IND_ArcCon	IND	null	null	8	1	IND	Buildings	8	Arcology Construction		The ability to create huge structures than can house up a million people with many times the efficiency of normal cities. This results in a 100 million population increase to the planetary limit and an overall 15% increase in the population growth rate.
IND_HrdStrct	IND	null	null	9	1	IND	Buildings	8	Hardened Structures		"The use of armored construction materials to create industrial and population centers resistant to orbital bombardment and reduces the damage taken by industry and population by 50%. Unfortunately, the over-centralization required for this reduces industrial output by 10%."
IND_ROOT	IND	IND	null	0	1	IND			Industrial	TechTree/industrial-tree.tga	Industrial
DRV_PlsFiss	DRV	null	null	2	1	POW	Fission	1	Pulsed Fission Drive		An improvement of the fission drive that releases drive plasma in high-powered pulses.
DRV_OvrThrust	DRV	null	null	3	2	POW	Fission	1	Overthrusting		The development of the oscillation overthruster allows for the venting of drive plasmas through advanced MHD compressors for extra thrust and speed. The potential also exists for non-drive venting races to use this effect as a power amplifier.
DRV_LRFiss	DRV	null	null	4	1	POW	Fission	1	Long-range Fission Drive		"A high-velocity, high efficiency drive system used by the Hivers to push across deep space"
DRV_RecFiss	DRV	null	null	5	2	POW	Fission	1	Recombinant Fissionables		A reactor technology that allows fissionable materials to be recycled for power generation.
DRV_SmlFus	DRV	null	null	6	1	POW	Fusion Misiles	1	Small Scale Fusion Drives		"The ability to produce fusion power plants of only a few cubic meters, which leads to faster assault shuttles, bio-missiles, and drones."
DRV_IncThrst	DRV	null	null	7	1	POW	Fusion Misiles	1	Ionic Thrusters		These highly efficient thrusters use heavy elements driven to relativistic speeds for thrusting power. Increases turn thrust on all ships and missiles by 25%
DRV_McroFus	DRV	null	null	7	2	POW	Fusion Misiles	1	Micro-Fusion Drives		"Fusion power plants small enough to power missiles, increasing their speed dramatically."
DRV_Ints	DRV	null	PD	8	1	POW	Fusion Misiles	1	Interceptor Missiles		"Advancements in micro-missile tech as well as in high-speed tracking and vector calculation allows for the creation of point defense missiles capable of engaging drones, guided torpedoes and mines. Other missiles remain too hard to vector against accurately and so Interceptors will NOT engage other missile ordinance."
WEP_MWMsl	WAR	WAR	null	8	2	POW	Fusion Misiles	1	MW Missile		A large heavily armored missile that carries 6 independent mini missiles that burst out and make their own way to the target once the missile is inside Point defense Range. Requires a large turret mount.
DRV_QntCap	DRV	null	null	10	1	POW	Energy	2	Quantum Capacitors		The technology utilizes advanced quantum systems to store energy at previously unheard of levels while remaining small enough to be used in ship’s systems. The result in increased beam weapon rates of fire and stronger shields.
SLD_Magni	SLD	null	null	11	1	POW	Energy	2	Shield Magnifier		"Increased understanding of high-energy quantum effects allows for focusing much more power through shield generators, effectively doubling their strength."
DRV_Fissn	DRV	null	null	1	1	POW	Reaction	3	Fission Drive		The basic propulsion drive of all ships.
DRV_Fusn	DRV	null	null	5	1	POW	Reaction	3	Fusion		A Ship powerplant that utilizes safer and more powerful Nuclear Fusion.
DRV_AntiMat	DRV	null	null	9	1	POW	Reaction	3	Anti-Matter		The ultimate level of reactor technology using anti-matter for 100% efficiency in matter to energy conversion.
DRV_LRFusn	DRV	null	null	6	2	POW	Fusion Range	4	Long-range Fusion Drive		"A high-velocity, high efficiency fusion drive system used by the Hivers to push across deep space."
DRV_PlsmFoc	DRV	null	null	7	1	POW	Fusion Range	4	Plasma Focusing		A refinement of fusion power physics that allows for greater efficiency resulting in a small increase in range for all fusion driven ships.
DRV_Rmscps	DRV	null	null	7	2	POW	Fusion Range	4	Ramscoops		A Hiver technology that allows Hiver ships to draw fuel from interstellar hydrogen clouds. This allows them to travel indefinitely without needing to refuel.
NRG_Root	DRV	DRV	null	0	1	POW			Power Technology	TechTree/energy-tree.tga	Power Technology
SLD_Clk	SLD	null	null	7	1	SLD	Cloak	1	Cloaking		Cloak capable ships are invisible to other players in tactical and strategic movement. Cloaked ships cannot fire.
SLD_ImpClk	SLD	null	null	8	1	SLD	Cloak	1	Improved Cloaking		"Similar in effect to basic cloaking technology, however ships with advanced cloaking can fire their weapons while cloaking is engaged."
SLD_Intang	SLD	null	null	10	1	SLD	Cloak	1	Intangibility		This technology allows a ship to go out of phase with reality for a few moments which causes all enemy fire to pass harmlessly through it.
SLD_Def	SLD	null	null	3	1	SLD	Shields	2	Deflectors		A projector technology which creates an electro-magnetic field in front of a ship that has a chance of deflecting ballistic weapons and detonating tracking weapons.
SLD_MkOne	SLD	null	SHIELDS	5	1	SLD	Shields	2	Shields Mk. 1		A projector technology which creates a quantum field around an entire vessel that blocks incoming attacks but can be overloaded by too much energy in a short period of time.
SLD_MkTwo	SLD	null	SHIELDS	6	1	SLD	Shields	2	Shields Mk. 2		A projector technology which creates a stronger quantum field around an entire vessel that blocks incoming attacks that can absorb more strikes before being overloaded by too much energy in a short period of time.
SLD_MkThree	SLD	null	SHIELDS	7	1	SLD	Shields	2	Shields Mk. 3		A projector technology which creates a very strong quantum field around an entire vessel that blocks incoming high-energy attacks that can absorb a lot of incoming fire before being overloaded by too much energy in a short period of time.
SLD_MkFour	SLD	null	SHIELDS	10	1	SLD	Shields	2	Shields Mk. 4		A projector technology which creates a stronger quantum field around an entire vessel that blocks incoming attacks that can absorb a massive amount of weapons fire before being overloaded by too much energy in a short period of time.
SLD_Disr	SLD	null	null	5	1	SLD	Disruptors	3	Disruptor Shield		Creates an electro-magnetic field around the front of a ship that breaks up and dissipates any energy weapon that impacts it.
SLD_ErgAb	SLD	null	null	8	1	SLD	Energy	3	Energy Absorbers		A power transducer unit that absorbs much of the power from energy weapon impacts and shunts it towards recharging on-board energy weapons.
SLD_MesShld	SLD	null	SHIELDS	9	1	SLD	Energy	3	Meson Shields		A energy field that completely negates most energy weapons.
SLD_GrvShld	SLD	null	SHIELDS	10	1	SLD	Energy	3	Grav Shields		A field that uses a warped gravity field to protect the ship from all ballistic attacks and offensive grav fields.
SLD_Root	SLD	SLD	null	0	1	SLD			Shield Technology	TechTree/shield-tree.tga	Shield Technology
WEP_DsrptrWhp	BAL	BAL	null	4	1	TRP	Disruptor	1	Disruptor Whip		"A Zuul-only technology that runs a disruptor charge through the harpoon, shutting down all weapon systems in the section it hits on a Destroyer. Versus Cruisers it only shuts down small and medium turrets and versus Dreadnoughts only small."
WEP_Dsrptr	TRP	TRP	TORPS	2	1	TRP	Disruptor	2	Disruptor		A charged ball of electrical plasma that passes the energy along to the target on impact. Does superficial damage and has a chance of shorting out some systems of the target ship.
WEP_EmPulse	TRP	TRP	TORPS	3	1	TRP	Disruptor	2	Electro Magnetic Pulsar		A ball of electrical plasma that detonates and affects a large area with an EM pulse capable of shorting out enemy ship systems temporarily.
WEP_IntCan	NRG	NRG	null	5	1	TRP	Inertia	2	Inertial Cannon		"Deeper understanding of field physics allows the projection of contained fields that induce a temporary shift in the targets acceleration vs. inertia ratio. The result is a small reduction in the target’s speed that slowly fades over time. Multiple hits by this weapon increases the effect. While the inertial field does no contact damage per se, the stress of the inertial shift does damage the target vessel’s support structure."
WEP_PlsTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	5	1	TRP	Disruptor	2	Pulsar Torpedo		A guided ball of electrical plasma that is capable of shorting out enemy ship systems temporarily.
WEP_HvyIntCan	NRG	NRG	null	8	1	TRP	Inertia	2	Heavy Inertial Cannon		A heavy barrel triple pulse version of the Inertial Cannon
WEP_PhotTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	3	1	TRP	Torpedo	3	Photonic Torpedo		"A self-sustaining field of lased light wrapped around an em field. This is a rapid pulse, direct fire, long-range torp that cannot be shot down."
WEP_PlsmTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	6	1	TRP	Torpedo	3	Plasma Torpedo		A tracking sphere of high-energy plasma that gets stronger over distance as the hydrogen inside begins to reach fusion temperatures. It can be shot down and as the sphere takes more damage its own explosive force is disrupted.
WEP_FusTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	7	1	TRP	Torpedo	3	Fusion Torpedo		A tracking sphere of Fusing plasma that gets stronger over distance as the fusion process grows towards critical mass. It can be shot down and as the sphere takes more damage its own explosive force is disrupted.
WEP_DtFsTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	9	1	TRP	Torpedo	3	Detonating Fusion Torpedo		A tracking sphere of Fusing plasma that gets stronger over distance as the fusion process grows until it finally achieves critical mass and detonates in a massive explosion that damages everything in the blast area. It can be shot down and as the sphere takes more damage its own explosive force is disrupted.
WEP_GluTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	9	2	TRP	Entergy Torpedo	3	Gluonic Torpedo		A self-sustaining field of charged gluons contained in an EM field. Capable of penetrating Deflector shields as well as circumventing energy absorbers. 
WEP_AmTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	10	1	TRP	Torpedo	3	Anti-Matter Torpedo		A tracking sphere of anti-matter deuterium contained in a magnetic field that releases upon impact allowing the Anti-matter to explode. The destructive energy grows over time as the anti-matter begins the fusion process but it can be shot down and as the sphere takes more damage its own explosive force is disrupted.
WEP_DtAmTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	11	1	TRP	Torpedo	3	Detonating Anti-Matter Torpedo		A tracking sphere of fusing anti-matter deuterium gets stronger over distance as the fusion process grows until it finally achieves critical mass and detonates in a massive explosion that damages everything in the blast area. It can be shot down and as the sphere takes more damage its own explosive force is disrupted.
WEP_KelTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	11	2	TRP	Entergy Torpedo	3	Kelvinic Torpedos		Particle manipulation and field tech allows for this torpedo capable of draining a target of its molecular motion to the point of leaving it near absolute zero for a few moments. This not only causes surface stress damage to the hull of the target but also makes it more fragile and therefore it takes more damage from any kind of subsequent damage.
WEP_MesTrp	TRP	TRP	TORPS	12	2	TRP	Entergy Torpedo	3	Mesonic Torpedo		A self-perpetuating Meson field that can be launched as a long range Capable of penetrating any defense except meson shields. 
TRP_ROOT	TRP	TRP	null	0	1	TRP			Torpedo Weapons	TechTree/torpedo-tree.tga	Torpedo Weapons
WEP_NukMine	WAR	WAR	MINES	2	1	WHD	Mine	1	Nuclear Mine		A powerful Nuclear Bomb designed to track and explode close to a passing enemy ship.
WEP_FusMine	WAR	WAR	MINES	6	1	WHD	Mine	1	Fusion Mine		A powerful Fusion Bomb designed to track and explode close to a passing enemy ship.
WEP_AmMine	WAR	WAR	MINES	7	2	WHD	Mine	1	Anti-Matter Mine		A powerful Anti-Matter bomb designed to track and explode close to a passing enemy ship.
WEP_LpMine	WAR	WAR	MINES	7	1	WHD	Mine	1	Leap Mine		A mine with a high burst micro-fusion drive attached which causes the mine to shoot towards a proximity target at high speed in a straight line.
WEP_ClkMine	WAR	WAR	MINES	8	2	WHD	Mine	1	Cloaked Mine		This technology allows for a small cloak generator to be attached to a standard fusion mine rendering them invisible to visual and standard sensors. The energy drain caused by the cloaking module does reduce the active lifespan of the mine though.
WEP_GrvMine	WAR	WAR	MINES	8	1	WHD	Mine	1	Gravity Mine		"A mine using small anti-matter reaction to power a field generator that produces intense grav waves around the mine for a brief time, pulling ships and missiles toward it."
WEP_ImpMine	WAR	WAR	MINES	9	1	WHD	Mine	1	Implosion Mine		A grav mine combined with a fusion element that generates a miniature artificial sun and pulls ships into its fire.
WEP_CorMsl	WAR	WAR	null	3	1	WHD	Advanced Missile	2	Corrosive Missile		A large missile capable of dispersing a cloud of powerful molecular acid contained in mini-spheres that bind to a passing ship’s hull and eat into it causing damage over time. Requires a large turret mount.
WEP_NanMsl	WAR	WAR	null	4	1	WHD	Advanced Missile	2	Nanite Missile		A large missile capable of dispersing a large cloud of powerful nano-disassemblers that bind to a passing ship’s hull and do a large amount of erosion damage over time. Requires a large turret mount.
WEP_Nukes	WAR	WAR	null	1	1	WHD	Missile	3	Nuclear Warhead		The standard tactical nuclear warhead for missiles.
WEP_NukeWhd	WAR	WAR	null	2	1	WHD	Missile	3	Shaped Nuclear Warhead		A more powerful warhead for nuclear missiles that concentrates the radiation in a directed blast.
WEP_GmaWhd	WAR	WAR	null	3	1	WHD	Missile	3	Gamma Warhead		A powerful optimized warhead for nuclear missiles and mines
WEP_FusWhd	WAR	WAR	null	5	1	WHD	Missile	3	Fusion Warhead		A powerful Fusion warhead for missiles.
WEP_AmWhd	WAR	WAR	null	7	1	WHD	Missile	3	Anti-Matter Warhead		A very powerful Anti-Matter warhead for missiles.
WEP_HvyPMsl	WAR	WAR	null	4	1	WHD	Planet	4	Heavy Planet Missile		"A more robust and expensive version of the standard planetary defense missile. It packs a moderately larger warhead and travels somewhat slower but is much more heavily armored than the standard version. Once researched, planets can fire one Heavy Missile for every 200 million population, rounding up."
WEP_DFMsl	BAL	BAL	null	3	1	WHD	Missile Propulsion	5	DF Racks		"A large array of missile tubes mounted on a medium turret station. These unguided missiles are much smaller than the standard missile and pack a smaller warhead, though they save some space for explosive force by not using large electronic modules."
WHD_ROOT	WAR	WAR	null	0	1	WHD			Warhead Weapons	TechTree/warhead-tree.tga	Warhead Weapons
CCC_TrnsZul	XNC	XNC	null	1	1	XNC	Zuul	1	Translate Zuul		"Having encountered the Zuul race, this tech allows you to translate basic military communications from the Zuul and form Ceasefire agreements with them, though why you would want to is beyond us."
XNC_TrnsZuul2	XNC	XNC	null	3	1	XNC	Zuul	1	Interrogate Zuul		"This deeper understanding of Zuul communications and Dominance protocols allows you to interact more deeply with Zuul culture, with less risk, allowing you to form NAP/Alliance agreements with them."
XNC_DomZuul	XNC	XNC	null	6	1	XNC	Zuul	1	Dominate Zuul		This deepest understanding of Zuul communication along with very advanced artificial psionic communication equipment allows you to subvert and impress the deepest levels of Zuul culture and government. With this level of language you can create Science Missions to teach aspects of technology that would otherwise be lost to this race as well as try to force a planetary surrender in the face of overwhelming power.
XNC_SubZuul	XNC	XNC	null	7	1	XNC	Zuul	1	Subjugate Zuul		"Allows you to take full control of a Zuul culture, which not only allows new possibilities in assimilation but also allows you a chance to absorb much weaker Zuul empires into your own without firing a shot."
CCC_TrnsHum	XNC	XNC	null	1	2	XNC	Human	2	Translate English		"Having encountered the Human race, this tech allows you to translate basic military communications from them and form Ceasefire agreements. This tech also allows the Morrigi to establish trade routes with this species."
XNC_TrnsHum2	XNC	XNC	null	2	2	XNC	Human	2	Translate Latin		"This deeper understanding of this race’s common language allows you to communicate directly with all aspects of their society, and allows you to form NAP/Alliance agreements as well as establish trade routes with them."
XNC_IncHum	XNC	XNC	null	3	2	XNC	Human	2	Incorporate Human		"With deeper study, members of this species living in enclaves on your worlds can be fully incorporated into your society. This allows them to be a fully functional portion of your civilian society on any given world."
XNC_AdctHum	XNC	XNC	null	4	1	XNC	Human	2	Addict Human		"Intimate knowledge of this alien species coupled with expanding experience in bio-weapons research allows for the development of a variety of highly addictive chemical products designed specifically for the human species and to which they have very little resistance. This results in a large bonus for trade routes into Human space, and a slow decline in human production due to addiction problems as well as an increased chance of planetary surrender."
XNC_TempHum	XNC	XNC	null	4	3	XNC	Human	2	Human Temperance		This development is in response to a dependency spreading though the human portions of the empire. Temperance is social and biochemical response to negate to the effect of these dependencies entering from other empires.
XNC_TrnsHum3	XNC	XNC	null	5	2	XNC	Human	2	Translate Hanzi		This deeper understanding of this race’s highest governmental and scientific language allows you to access the deepest levels of human culture and government. With this level of language you can create Science Missions to teach aspects of technology that would otherwise be lost to this race as well as try to force a planetary surrender in the face of overwhelming power.
XNC_SubHum	XNC	XNC	null	6	2	XNC	Human	2	Subjugate Human		"Allows you to take full control of a human culture, which not only allows new possibilities in assimilation but also allows you a chance to absorb much weaker human empires into your own without firing a shot."
XNC_AccHum	XNC	XNC	null	7	1	XNC	Human	2	Accommodate Human		"Complete understanding of human physiology coupled with the social sciences allows you to integrate the life support needs of human seamlessly into your culture, thus removing the need to take into account planetary hazard ratings for them."
XNC_ProfHum	XNC	XNC	null	7	3	XNC	Human	2	Proliferate Human		This technology makes your worlds and culture more hospitable to humans and gives them the ability to spontaneously attract human civilian populations as well as increasing the overall alien population limit on all your worlds.
CCC_TrnsHvr	XNC	XNC	null	1	2	XNC	Hiver	3	Translate Ri’kap-ken		"Having encountered the Hiver race, this tech allows you to translate basic military communications from them and form Ceasefire agreements. This tech also allows the Morrigi to establish trade routes with this species."
XNC_TrnsHvr2	XNC	XNC	null	2	2	XNC	Hiver	3	Translate K’en-Ken		"This deeper understanding of this race’s common language allows you to communicate directly with all aspects of their society, and allows you to form NAP/Alliance agreements as well as establish trade routes with them."
XNC_IncHvr	XNC	XNC	null	3	2	XNC	Hiver	3	Incorporate Hiver		"With deeper study, members of this species living in enclaves on your worlds can be fully incorporated into your society. This allows them to be a fully functional portion of your civilian society on any given world."
XNC_AdctHvr	XNC	XNC	null	4	1	XNC	Hiver	3	Addict Hiver		"Intimate knowledge of this alien species coupled with expanding experience in bio-weapons research allows for the development of a variety of highly addictive chemical products designed specifically for the Hiver species and to which they have very little resistance. This results in a large bonus for trade routes into Hiver space, and a slow decline in Hiver production due to addiction problems as well as an increased chance of planetary surrender."
XNC_TempHvr	XNC	XNC	null	4	3	XNC	Hiver	3	Hiver Temperance		This development is in response to a dependency spreading though the Hiver portions of the empire. Temperance is social and biochemical response to negate to the effect of these dependencies entering from other empires.
XNC_TrnsHvr3	XNC	XNC	null	5	2	XNC	Hiver	3	Translate Tcho’to-Ken		This deeper understanding of this race’s highest governmental and scientific language allows you to access the deepest levels of Hiver culture and government. With this level of language you can create Science Missions to teach aspects of technology that would otherwise be lost to this race as well as try to force a planetary surrender in the face of overwhelming power.
XNC_SubHvr	XNC	XNC	null	6	2	XNC	Hiver	3	Subjugate Hiver		"Allows you to take full control of a Hiver culture, which not only allows new possibilities in assimilation but also allows you a chance to absorb much weaker Hiver empires into your own without firing a shot."
XNC_AccHvr	XNC	XNC	null	7	1	XNC	Hiver	3	Accommodate Hiver		"Complete understanding of Hiver physiology coupled with the social sciences allows you to integrate the life support needs of Hivers seamlessly into your culture without disrupting your own citizens, thus removing the need to take into account planetary hazard ratings for them."
XNC_ProfHvr	XNC	XNC	null	7	3	XNC	Hiver	3	Proliferate Hiver		This technology makes your worlds and culture more hospitable to Hivers and gives them the ability to spontaneously attract Hiver civilian populations as well as increasing the overall alien population limit on all your worlds.
CCC_TrnsMorr	XNC	XNC	null	1	2	XNC	Morrigi	4	Translate Trade Creole		"Allows you to translate basic communications from Morrigi players, form Ceasefire agreements and establish trade routes with them. Also provides a 15% bonus to all Xeno-culture research."
XNC_TrnsMorr2	XNC	XNC	null	2	2	XNC	Morrigi	4	Translate Female Dialect		"This deeper understanding of this race’s common language allows you to communicate directly with all aspects of their society, and allows you to form NAP/Alliance agreements as well as establish trade routes with them."
XNC_IncMorr	XNC	XNC	null	3	2	XNC	Morrigi	4	Incorporate Morrigi		"With deeper study, members of this species living in enclaves on your worlds can be fully incorporated into your society. This allows them to be a fully functional portion of your civilian society on any given world."
XNC_AdctMorr	XNC	XNC	null	4	1	XNC	Morrigi	4	Addict Morrigi		"Intimate knowledge of this alien species coupled with expanding experience in bio-weapons research allows for the development of a variety of highly addictive chemical products designed specifically for the Morrigi species and to which they have very little resistance. This results in a large bonus for trade routes into Morrigi space, and a slow decline in Morrigi production due to addiction problems as well as an increased chance of planetary surrender."
XNC_TempMorr	XNC	XNC	null	4	3	XNC	Morrigi	4	Morrigi Temperance		This development is in response to a dependency spreading though the Morrigi portions of the empire. Temperance is social and biochemical response to negate to the effect of these dependencies entering from other empires.
XNC_TrnsMorr3	XNC	XNC	null	5	2	XNC	Morrigi	4	Translate Ancient Morrigi		This deeper understanding of this race’s highest governmental and scientific language allows you to access the deepest levels of Morrigi culture and government. With this level of language you can create Science Missions to teach aspects of technology that would otherwise be lost to this race as well as try to force a planetary surrender in the face of overwhelming power. Aspects of Ancient Morrigi also allow you circumvent Colony and Asteroid Traps as well as make taking control of Asteroid Monitors much easier.
XNC_SubMorr	XNC	XNC	null	6	2	XNC	Morrigi	4	Subjugate Morrigi		"Allows you to take full control of a Morrigi culture, which not only allows new possibilities in assimilation but also allows you a chance to absorb much weaker Morrigi empires into your own without firing a shot."
XNC_AccMorr	XNC	XNC	null	7	1	XNC	Morrigi	4	Accommodate Morrigi		"Complete understanding of Morrigi physiology coupled with the social sciences allows you to integrate the life support needs of the Morrigi seamlessly into your culture without disrupting your own citizens, thus removing the need to take into account planetary hazard ratings for them."
XNC_ProfMorr	XNC	XNC	null	7	3	XNC	Morrigi	4	Proliferate Morrigi		This technology makes your worlds and culture more hospitable to Morrigi and gives them the ability to spontaneously attract Morrigi civilian populations as well as increasing the overall alien population limit on all your worlds.
CCC_TrnsLir	XNC	XNC	null	1	2	XNC	Liir	5	Translate FleetSong		"Having encountered the Liir race, this tech allows you to translate basic military communications from them and form Ceasefire agreements. This tech also allows the Morrigi to establish trade routes with this species."
XNC_TrnsLir2	XNC	XNC	null	2	2	XNC	Liir	5	Translate SteelSong		"This deeper understanding of this race’s common language allows you to communicate directly with all aspects of their society, and allows you to form NAP/Alliance agreements with them."
XNC_IncLir	XNC	XNC	null	3	2	XNC	Liir	5	Incorporate Liir		"With deeper study, members of this species living in enclaves on your worlds can be fully incorporated into your society. This allows them to be a fully functional portion of your civilian society on any given world."
XNC_AdctLir	XNC	XNC	null	4	1	XNC	Liir	5	Addict Liir		"Intimate knowledge of this alien species coupled with expanding experience in bio-weapons research allows for the development of a variety of highly addictive chemical products designed specifically for the Liir species and to which they have very little resistance. This results in a large bonus for trade routes into Liir space, and a slow decline in Liir production due to addiction problems as well as an increased chance of planetary surrender."
XNC_TempLir	XNC	XNC	null	4	3	XNC	Liir	5	Liir Temperance		This development is in response to a dependency spreading though the Liir portions of the empire. Temperance is social and biochemical response to negate to the effect of these dependencies entering from other empires.
XNC_TrnsLir3	XNC	XNC	null	5	2	XNC	Liir	5	MetaConcert		This deeper understanding of this race’s highest governmental and scientific language allows you to access the deepest levels of Liir culture and government. With this level of language you can create Science Missions to teach aspects of technology that would otherwise be lost to this race as well as try to force a planetary surrender in the face of overwhelming power.
XNC_SubLir	XNC	XNC	null	6	2	XNC	Liir	5	Subjugate Liir		"Allows you to take full control of a Liir culture, which not only allows new possibilities in assimilation but also allows you a chance to absorb much weaker Liir empires into your own without firing a shot."
XNC_AccLir	XNC	XNC	null	7	1	XNC	Liir	5	Accommodate Liir		"Complete understanding of Liir physiology coupled with the social sciences allows you to integrate the life support needs of the Liir seamlessly into your culture without disrupting your own citizens, thus removing the need to take into account planetary hazard ratings for them."
XNC_ProfLir	XNC	XNC	null	7	3	XNC	Liir	5	Proliferate Liir		This technology makes your worlds and culture more hospitable to Liir and gives them the ability to spontaneously attract Liir civilian populations as well as increasing the overall alien population limit on all your worlds.
CCC_TrnsTrk	XNC	XNC	null	1	2	XNC	Tarka	6	Translate Urdu Kai		"Having encountered the Tarka race, this tech allows you to translate basic military communications from them and form Ceasefire agreements. This tech also allows the Morrigi to establish trade routes with this species."
XNC_TrnsTrk2	XNC	XNC	null	2	2	XNC	Tarka	6	Translate Gutter Dialect		"This deeper understanding of this race’s common language allows you to communicate directly with all aspects of their society, and allows you to form NAP/Alliance agreements as well as establish trade routes with them."
XNC_IncTrk	XNC	XNC	null	3	2	XNC	Tarka	6	Incorporate Tarka		"With deeper study, members of this species living in enclaves on your worlds can be fully incorporated into your society. This allows them to be a fully functional portion of your civilian society on any given world."
XNC_AdctTrk	XNC	XNC	null	4	1	XNC	Tarka	6	Addict Tarka		"Intimate knowledge of this alien species coupled with expanding experience in bio-weapons research allows for the development of a variety of highly addictive chemical products designed specifically for the Tarka species and to which they have very little resistance. This results in a large bonus for trade routes into Tarkasian space, and a slow decline in Tarka production due to addiction problems as well as an increased chance of planetary surrender."
XNC_TempTrk	XNC	XNC	null	4	3	XNC	Tarka	6	Tarka Temperance		This development is in response to a dependency spreading though the Tarka portions of the empire. Temperance is social and biochemical response to negate to the effect of these dependencies entering from other empires.
XNC_TrnsTrk3	XNC	XNC	null	5	2	XNC	Tarka	6	Translate Kona Kai		This deeper understanding of this race’s highest governmental and scientific language allows you to access the deepest levels of Tarkasian culture and government. With this level of language you can create Science Missions to teach aspects of technology that would otherwise be lost to this race as well as try to force a planetary surrender in the face of overwhelming power.
XNC_SubTrk	XNC	XNC	null	6	2	XNC	Tarka	6	Subjugate Tarka		"Allows you to take full control of a Tarka culture, which not only allows new possibilities in assimilation but also allows you a chance to absorb much weaker Tarka empires into your own without firing a shot."
XNC_AccTrk	XNC	XNC	null	7	1	XNC	Tarka	6	Accommodate Tarka		"Complete understanding of Tarkasian physiology coupled with the social sciences allows you to integrate the life support needs of the Tarka seamlessly into your culture without disrupting your own citizens, thus removing the need to take into account planetary hazard ratings for them."
XNC_ProfTrk	XNC	XNC	null	7	3	XNC	Tarka	6	Proliferate Tarka		This technology makes your worlds and culture more hospitable to Tarka and gives them the ability to spontaneously attract Tarkasian civilian populations as well as increasing the overall alien population limit on all your worlds.
XNC_ROOT	XNC	XNC	null	0	1	XNC			Xenotech	TechTree/xenoculture_tree.tga	Xenotech
